You know, young people are very precious in the eyes of Jehovah.
He loves them dearly.
And we see that in the how Jesus himself viewed children when Jesus was on the earth.
He welcomed them into his company.
He blessed them.
This is because he imitated his father, Jehovah.
Now, Jehovah holds them very precious because he sees the potential that they have of bringing
him praise and glory.
And the way Jehovah created man to grow up and to experience youth during youth is a
very special time because it's a beautiful time of renewed energy or of new found energy
and strength.
In fact, the Bible says that Proverbs 20 verse 29, that the glory of young men is their
strength.
And it's such a beautiful thing when this strength is used to serve Jehovah God and to
praise him.
What better way really could any of us experience Jehovah's blessing but to use whatever vital
energy we have, especially during our youthful energy time, to praise and serve our God, Jehovah.
And then we see how Jehovah works with us and blesses us, which encourages us to do even
greater works as we get older.
This was the case when we consider King David.
You know, when he was just a youth, he served as a shepherd.
Guarding the flocks of his father.
And what happened during that youthful time?
He used his energy to protect the flock.
He even was able to strike down bears and lions who would eat the flock of his father.
But these instances of where he saw his own strength, but more importantly, when he saw
Jehovah working with him, really encouraged him to have confidence to praise Jehovah as
he even grew older and to face any obstacle or any challenge that he may encounter.
He immediately saw this when, for instance, when Goliath taunted the battle lines of Jehovah.
How did these experiences as a shepherd of his father's flock encourage him to take
on this challenge?
Well, if you have your Bible's handy, open it to 1 Samuel chapter 17.
And if we read verses 36 and 37, it says, David said, you're servant struck down both
lion and the bear and this uncircumcised Philistine will become like one of them, where he has
taunted the battle lines of the living God.
He says, then David added, Jehovah who rescued me from the claws of the lion and the bear,
he is the one who will rescue me from the hand of the Philistine.
So he had confidence in Jehovah and provided he would praise Jehovah and use whatever
energy he had and ability he had to serving God and to praising him.
He knew Jehovah would back him up.
And so it was obvious when he slew Goliath who was behind this.
It certainly wasn't just him because we remember when the Goliath looked down at David,
he sneered at him.
He saw a handsome and ruddy boy.
This little boyish-faced young man, red-haired and thought, with no spear, no armament, you
got to be kidding me.
But here, Jehovah, because David praised him, backed David up and he gave David the victory.
We see throughout the scriptures how youth were able to do this and putting whatever energy
they had and praising God, how Jehovah backed them up.
We think of even the little Israelite girl who was taken captive by this Syrian naman.
This poor little thing, she was kidnapped, probably scared, instead of recoiling, she looked
for opportunities to praise Jehovah God and what took place.
Well we know that Jehovah blessed her efforts.
He actually conquered the warrior naman and because of this little girl's boldness and
courage to praise Jehovah before him, naman became a worshiper of Jehovah God.
We can see then that it takes courage and strength, but it does not take a huge amount of
strength physically to accomplish Jehovah's will because he backs us up.
We just need to put ourselves out there, like David and this young girl who, the Israelite
girl, praising Jehovah God and Jehovah will bless us.
Even in our modern day, we see little ones praising Jehovah God and doing tremendous work.
Just this week, I heard an experience at our table of a young brother in a congregation
here in New York City.
He was so bound and determined to praise Jehovah.
He had his presentation all prepared and he went to go and tell people about Jehovah.
He went into a store with his brother that he was working with.
Her owner wouldn't hear him, but as he was walking out the door, a man, a very large man
was walking through the door and he would not let the man pass.
He was bound and determined to give his presentation.
He looked at the man and he says, do you know why I am called one of Jehovah's Witnesses?
And the man says, well, I guess you're just following some man named Jehovah and he goes,
well, let me tell you from the scriptures why we are called Jehovah's Witnesses.
He gave his beautiful witness placed magazines with this man and the brother was working with him,
thanked him for listening to the young brother and the man says, no.
He says, I really appreciate what this young man had to say.
He did a fine job in making a presentation.
Yes, praising Jehovah God, just this little six-year-old and the brother told me,
he says, if you were to see this man, you would think twice about approaching him.
But this little brother had the courage and strength to praise Jehovah
and Jehovah richly blessed him for doing so.
Yes, we can see how Jehovah does bless us and how he has blessed our young people.
We see how wonderful they praise Jehovah God when they come to Bethel.
As was our commenter brought out this morning how we see how these young brothers and sisters
when they come to offer themselves here at Bethel to work hard, to praising Jehovah,
how he is able to bless his organization because of their hard work.
And what a wonderful pattern of life this sets up for young ones and praising Jehovah God when
they are young. We know right here at Bethel when we praise Jehovah God by means of our work,
one day turns in the next years past and next thing you know, we've been serving Jehovah
and we're still youthful in our minds and our hearts, but something can happen,
something that perhaps is surprising and confusing to us, that one day we wake up and we have
that little pain in our back, we may get a little more tired than we used to, and yes, our physical
energy, our youthful energy has begun to weigh. Now, what do we do? Do we just toss in the
towel and call it defeat and say, well, forget it, let someone else do it? Well, remember what
Jehovah says he would do for us at Isaiah chapter 40, in verse 31. Here we have this promise from
Jehovah. He says, with those hoping in Jehovah will regain power. They will soar on wings like
eagles. They will run and not grow weary. They will walk and not tire out. Even though the physical
body may tire out, the heart, the spirit, the courage, the zeal we have for Jehovah's service
does not wane. We think of again, King David, when he got older. There he was in 2 Samuel chapter 21,
doing battle, doing battle again with giants, but the Bible says that he became exhausted.
What happened? Well, others took up the slack. They went and fought for him. They fought the giants,
but no doubt they were encouraged by David's zeal and the encouragement he gave them and all the
experiences that he related to them about Jehovah brought about victory during his youthful years.
Yes, David's heart never did weaken. His spirit was strong right until the end.
Therefore, let us, if we're in our youthful ears, use our energy to praise Jehovah God. He will bless
us and accomplish many mighty things in our, in his behalf, in using us. And likewise, those of us
who are now getting older, we too can have that youthful zeal in praising our God and see how he's
continues to work with us to accomplish great acts to his glory.